Okay. In this video, we are gonna take
a look at deleting records using a
RESTful service. So what I've done is
I've implemented the backend already,
and you can see here on the screen, I
have our CustomerService interface up
and I've added in a new method deleteCustomerById. Let's go ahead and
take a look at the implementation. So
this is actually pretty simple. It
doesn't return anything. It just goes in
does the deleteById. You might
technically wanna put in some error
handling to see if that id is found.
But you could do it either way here, and
add an exception in bubble that up if it
is not found. Some people like to delete
it if it's there, and if it doesn't, just
return back in okay code. So I think
either way is appropriate. Depends on
how you personally want to
implement it here. I'm not adding in any
error handling, and could see that I've
implemented a very simple test. We are
doing a delete, and I am verifying
that and this does run one time. So we'll
go ahead and run that test right now.
You see that, that test does pass
properly. Now let's take a look at the
controller. And in the controller, I've
gone ahead and we'd wanna actually do
it delete here. Doing an easily delete
method, and we are gonna verify that
this does run, and we want an OK status
returned. So we will go ahead and run
this, and show it failing right now
because it should not pass. And we can
see that it does in fact fail. So let's
go ahead and implement that now. So let's
go ahead. We are gonna be using these
same method. And as usual, I recommend not
to cut and paste, like I'm doing here.
Now we're gonna change us to @DeleteMapping, and we wanna be giving that id
value. That deleteCustomer.
In this case, we are not bringing in the
body. So we get rid of that. We're gonna
do a deleteById, delete that comma, and in this case,
let's refactor this a little bit.
In case, we wanted to do a Void.
And we are gonna return back a HttpStatus of OK. So that's a pretty
simple implementation for our DeleteMapping. So let's go ahead and run our
test now. See if that does run. We are now
passing. So let's go ahead and we will
run. Bring up Spring Boot.
We are up and running.
So let's come on over here and going
against localhost to our api value, and
we can see that Michale Weston is there.
So let's go ahead and do a DELETE method.
Send that. I can see that would get our
OK. Now let's come back and get, do a
GET and we have not implemented any
error handling here because we did got a
internal server error. Let's take a quick
peek. See what happened there. So that
there's a runtime exception. So that's
coming out of there. And here, we can
definitely add in something more
graceful and I am going to get into that
in a future video. But the application
for right now is behaving as expected.